Dealing

        A player is dealt a hand of n letters chosen at random (assume n=7 for now).

        The player arranges the hand into as many words as they want out of the letters, using each letter at most once.

        Some letters may remain unused (these won't be scored).

Scoring

        The score for the hand is the sum of the scores for each word formed.

        The score for a word is the sum of the points for letters in the word, multiplied by the length of the word, plus 50 points if all n letters are used on the first word created.

        Letters are scored as in Scrabble; A is worth 1, B is worth 3, C is worth 3, D is worth 2, E is worth 1, and so on. We have defined the dictionary SCRABBLE_LETTER_VALUES that maps each lowercase letter to its Scrabble letter value.

        For example, 'weed' would be worth 32 points ((4+1+1+2) for the four letters, then multiply by len('weed') to get (4+1+1+2)*4 = 32). Be sure to check that the hand actually has 1 'w', 2 'e's, and 1 'd' before scoring the word!

        As another example, if n=7 and you make the word 'waybill' on the first try, it would be worth 155 points (the base score for 'waybill' is (4+1+4+3+1+1+1)*7=105, plus an additional 50 point bonus for using all n letters).


Sample Output

Here is how the game output will look!


Loading word list from file...
   83667 words loaded.
Enter n to deal a new hand, r to replay the last hand, or e to end game: n
Current Hand: p z u t t t o
Enter word, or a "." to indicate that you are finished: tot
"tot" earned 9 points. Total: 9 points
Current Hand: p z u t
Enter word, or a "." to indicate that you are finished: .
Total score: 9 points.

Enter n to deal a new hand, r to replay the last hand, or e to end game: r
Current Hand: p z u t t t o
Enter word, or a "." to indicate that you are finished: top
"top" earned 15 points. Total: 15 points
Current Hand: z u t t
Enter word, or a "." to indicate that you are finished: tu
Invalid word, please try again.
Current Hand: z u t t
Enter word, or a "." to indicate that you are finished: .
Total score: 15 points.

Enter n to deal a new hand, r to replay the last hand, or e to end game: n
Current Hand: a q w f f i p
Enter word, or a "." to indicate that you are finished: paw
"paw" earned 24 points. Total: 24 points
Current Hand: q f f i
Enter word, or a "." to indicate that you are finished: qi
"qi" earned 22 points. Total: 46 points
Current Hand: f f
Enter word, or a "." to indicate that you are finished: .
Total score: 46 points.

Enter n to deal a new hand, r to replay the last hand, or e to end game: n
Current Hand: a r e t i i n
Enter word, or a "." to indicate that you are finished: inertia
"inertia" earned 99 points. Total: 99 points
Run out of letters. Total score: 99 points.

Enter n to deal a new hand, r to replay the last hand, or e to end game: e


